All right, let's get up and running with
uploading some images.
In my Node course
I showed you how you can use something
called a Multer with Express in order to
actually upload the images to your own server.
So I thought I'd show you something
a little bit different in this course
and that is uploading to a external service.
This is called Cloudinary
and there's lots of other services out there.
I know Amazon allows you to upload images to them.
You could just use something like Imgur.
I really liked Cloudinary
just because I've used it myself,
this is not sponsored or anything,
but when I put out a tweet poll,
it was overwhelmingly that people wanted to see
how to use Cloudinary to host their images.
Cloudinary is awesome because you can upload images,
it will do transformations which includes everything,
like a image compression, resizing images,
cropping, applying filters, all kinds of stuff like that.
You get the point,
anything that's related to images,
you'll be able to do it on Cloudinary.
They give you 10 Gigs for free
and then you can also refer a friend and get an extra what,
two Gigs worth of bandwidth, which is pretty wicked.
So the free plan is pretty generous.
I've been pretty happy with it.
So here I've got a brand new account.
I just signed up for it,
like I haven't even verified my email just yet.
Maybe I'll have to do that before we upload one.
I've signed up for it and I just wanted to
make a couple settings changes that is going
to allow us to upload from the client without
having to have a server in the middle.
So click on settings here
and we're gonna click on upload.
Now there's all kinds of different settings in here.
You can play with them,
but we, what we really want to do is create
what's called a preset
and a preset set of settings that will apply
to any of our uploads.
So we'll click on add, upload presets.
We're gonna name this preset called sick fits.
It's gonna be unsigned which is what we've had.
Folder that it's gonna go into is
gonna be called sick fits.
You can apply tags and all kinds of stuff
that you could possibly want.
However the thing that we do care about is down here.
And we want to edit some
incoming transformations which is right here.
We're gonna set the width to be a thousand.
The mode is gonna be stuck on scale.
The format is gonna be auto and you can
see some of the, some cheesy corner radius rotation.
Look and feel.
You can, I don't know,
you can add a CPF filter like at the digital
camera from 12 years ago.
That's all we want.
And then you click on, okay,
that's gonna add those things here.
And then we're gonna add an eager transformation
which is gonna sort of in the background
transfer it to be a little bit bigger.
So we're gonna add an eager transformation.
Actually, sorry, real quick.
That shouldn't be not be a thousand.
The first one is gonna be 500.
And then in the background it's going
to do a larger transformation that might
take a little bit longer.
So, we're gonna.
Oops, I got to here, delete one.
We're gonna edit this one.
It's gonna be a thousand pixels,
so twice the size and the,
it's gonna be auto as well.
Good.
We are at the bottom and click on save
and we are up and running.
Now let's jump back to our component here.
We are gonna put a method on our create item
component that is gonna handle all of
the uploading of our images.
Gonna do that right below the handle change
and we're gonna call it upload file that I was
gonna take in the event.
And let's just console dot log uploading file.
Now what we want to do is whenever somebody selects
a file from an input box,
we're gonna actually trigger this upload file to do it.
So we'll go up in here and right above
everything else and I'm actually just going
to take one of the labels for title and pasted above.
We're gonna change that to file.
And change this to say image,
so input type equals file.
This file name is file, placeholder
is upload an image.
It is the value is going
to be this, that state dot image.
And then when somebody changes this input,
we're gonna call that upload file method.
So this stuck up load file.
Now let's go to our application here.
Go to sell and I get it.
But in an error failed to set the value
of property input, accepts a file name,
which may be both because there is no value
or move that and whoa, double what happened.
That was weird.
That was probably the fact that they went
from error back to where we had it.
Good.
So we've got this image.
Let's go ahead and choose a file.
I've got a whole bunch of kind of cool things.
Ooh, nice cooler.
Upload it and let's see what's in our thing says
uploading files.
So we.
Every time we change this,
it's gonna trigger that upload file.
Good.
And then we're gonna actually do
the heavy lifting inside of this.
First thing we're gonna do
is pull the files out of that selection.
So say const files as equal to
either target dot files fails.
That is a fail files.
There we go.
Then we're gonna use the form data API,
which is part of Java script in order
to sort of prep all of the data.
So say const data equals new form data
and we'll take the data and append the file
and that is gonna be the first item
that the user selected.
Then we are also gonna add the upload preset.
This is a little piece of data that needs to come along.
So it append upload preset.
And this is just an argument that is needed by Cloudinary
and it's going to be called sick fits.
So if you named your preset something different
than sick fits, which is what you've done here,
and make sure that you type that in there,
otherwise it's not gonna work.
Now we need to actually hit the Cloudinary API.
So say constant responses equal to await.
Oh, are awaiting.
So we're gonna make this an async function.
And we're gonna use the third API to hit the API,
so it's https, bomb bomb, api.cloudinary.com/v1_1/.
And then this is gonna be your actual end point
and if you don't know what your end point is, you can
see it right here on your upload page.
It will say the name of that you signed up with.
Mine is Wes Bos tutorial.
So forest Wes Bos tutorial for slash image
or slash upload, good.
Then factual tick.
Another number of arguments as a second argument here,
they say method is post because by default
fetch does get and the body is gonna be the data.
That's this.
It's just the actual file itself.
And then in another argument called upload preset,
that gets put along.
Then we want to do is it's gonna upload that
and we want to parse the data that comes back.
So say cons.
The file is equal to await response that JSON
Jews Sawn, JSON.
Here we go, and that's just gonna convert the response
that we get into JSON.
And then we, let's just console,
log the file that we have there,
see what we've got,
but we can actually put the data that comes back into these
two spots of our state.
Where did our state go here?
The image and the large image.
So let's do that.
This set state, the image is gonna be the file,
that secure URL, a large image is going
to be the file that eager first one dot secure year.
And again, the whoa,
again, the eager is a secondary transformed
that happens and it's gonna transform a larger version
of that and I just used that as the secondary
so we don't have to wait for both of them
to come back.
That might make the requests a little bit faster.
So let's take a look here.
Let's go back up here.
A bit of an error, sink upload file.
Oh, that's because it's not a sink there.
This is a sink.
Good.
What I want you to do is open up your DEV tools,
go to your reactive tools and
find your create item.
And we're gonna watch the image
and the large image of our state.
So upload an image up up and Bam,
they came back.
Let's take a look at our console.
This is the data that comes back from Cloudinary.
It has all kinds of information about everything
that's going in.
You can choose to save some more of this information
to your database if you need it.
I'm specifically just grabbing the secure URL
and the security Arielle from the eager one
that was created.
And that is awesome.
Which should allow me now to submit this.
What was that?
Camera sensor make to seventies.
Big Price and love these.
Go ahead and submit it brings me to it.
I should be able to now go to my homepage,
scroll to the bottom.
And there they are.
Looks like they're showing up
but a stretchy problem.
So, we'll hit that in just a second.
Also, I'd like to it to show at the top of this.
So we'll get into it.
But that item is now uploading it just fine.
So I'm happy about that.
One little thing you might want to add,
I'm not gonna add it first simplicity sake,
but you might want to when you submit this thing, this form,
you might want to first check that the
images done uploading because there
could be a little bit of time where someone
uploads a file and then immediately hits enter,
then it's gonna send the data your API will still come back
with a specific error
saying, hey, you didn't provide to me a image
or a large image but it's,
it might be a better experience to do that to the user.
So let's try it one more time and go to sell here.
A blood annuity belt.
One thing I would like to do is to display the image to
the user if there it is in there.
So let's go ahead and add that.
Oh, go down right below this input.
Curly brackets will say this,
that state, that image and end, we'll do an image tag,
this, that state dot image,
and the Alt.
We'll set it to upload preview.
Will that show us?
Beautiful.
Why are these images?
So funnily spaced,
oh, it looks like they're actually being sized like that.
So obviously a something wrong in my preset.
Let me go back and change my.
Oh, you see what I did is I set the height
and the width of this image.
So let's edit that preset right here
and the height.
Delete it.
That's just gonna auto scale itself.
That's why my images are being so funnily shown.
Another thing I can do here
is on this image tag,
you say width equals 200 and you see just a little
preview of your image that is showing up.
You can go ahead and submit it.
Go back to our homepage and we'll see it show up.
I didn't submit that one.
That's why it's not showing up there.
Awesome.
So we got the R part of CRED, Read.
We've got the C part of CRED, which is Create.
Now let's go ahead and code up the edit screen.
If I want to change the price,
the name or the description of one of our items.